---
layout: page
title: Deep Feature Extraction by Information Regularization
permalink: /research/
---

Feature extraction is one of the main stages in most of the machine learning algorithms. On one hand, the feature space needs to be simply transformable to the target space, and on the other hand, it needs to be informative about the target variable. Deep neural networks, provide a hierarchy of features in different levels of abstraction. Measuring and optimizing the amount of information between the feature and the target variable, is a challenging task which I am trying to address. Usually, we may wish the extracted feature to keep desired information about the target variable. In addition to that, we may wish to remove information about other sensitive variables from the feature. This concept can be utilized in many applications such as regularizing deep models or preserving users' data privacy while using cloud based services. In the context of information theory, we may exploit the mutual information and deep neural networks to model the problem of feature extraction with information regularization constrains. I am also trying to suggest a general deep neural network structure to solve this optimization problem. As a case study, I want to address the challenge of privacy preservation in cloud-based solutions in learning problems. I am going to discuss the ways in which we can utilize edge-computing to improve the scalability and privacy of user-centered analytics and present a hybrid framework where edge devices can complement the cloud for providing privacy-aware, yet accurate and efficient analytics.

